The name MongoDB comes from the word "Humongous".
It is built to scale and store lots and lots of data.
Similar to MySQL, MongoDB also follows the client-server model.
In MongoDB, data is organized into documents.
Documents are a collection of key value pairs.
The values can be scholar types like numbers, dates, and strings.
The values can also be arrays,
other documents, or arrays of documents.
Documents are organized into collections.
A set of collections is organized into a database.
A typical document in MongoDB looks like this.
As you can see, the structure is very similar to JSON.
But MongoDB documents are represented in BSON format.
BSON is a serialization format used to store documents in MongoDB.
BSON stands for Binary JSON.
Think of BSON as a binary representation of JSON documents.
In MongoDB, each document stored in a collection
requires a unique underscore ID field that access a primary key.
If an inserted document omits the underscore ID field,
the MongoDB database automatically generates one.
Let's see how some relational concepts map to
MongoDB so you can kind of co-relate them with MySQL.
A database in a relational model maps to a database in MongoDB.
A table maps to a collection,
a row to a document,
and finally, a column maps to a field.